Figaro and Doppelganger

Today (July 2023) Vito and Alissa said they'd be honored to adopt Sockies and Poos, or Figaro and Doppelganger, when we move. 

This brings a happy resolution to the past 2 years of the cats deciding they'd rather live with our neighbors than us. 

It all started when we were coming back from a walk and a man was standing in our driveway, casually checking his phone.

Oh, you live here, he says, in a distinctly Italian accent, a rarity in Nashville. I live in the house across the alley. Have you seen these black and white cats in the alley? 

Oh yeah, they're our cats, we replied. Socrates and Apollo.

They're YOUR cats!? He exclaimed, whipping out his phone. We thought they were strays. They came wandering around one day - my wife loves cats - take a look at this.

We look at his phone as he swipes through photos of Socrates and Apollo sleeping on their bed, drinking water out of a glass on the bathroom counter, etc, etc, etc. We couldn't believe it.

Sockies and Poos had literally finagled their way into another family's home, and convinced them they were poor stray cats who needed pampering. It was unreal. 

Shortly before we moved, Vito and Alysa texted us asking if we had seen DG, no such luck, turns out he had found a third family and had set up shop a few doors down. 

Sockies and Poos became prolific hunters since finding their way outside. We got a few presents early on - a mouse, a bird or two - and thought it was cute they were finally catching one or two. Turns out they were actually killing almost every small animal on the block and just bringing them over to Vito and Alissa. The dead squirrel left in the closet while on vacation for a week that turned into a pile of maggots is the most vividly disgusting one I can remember Vito laughing about while telling me. 

We had each other's vacation schedules down. When Vito and Alissa would leave for a few days, eventually we'd find Apollo screaming at the back door to be let in so he could jump into the bathtub and drink from the faucet. 

At one point, we had seven litter boxes in the basement for Sockies, Poos, and Snorlax. The few months before we moved, there was one litter box down there that hadn't been used in months. Occasionally I'd look out back and see one of them popping a squat in the middle of the yard like the wild beasts they had become.

Turns out we had moved to a perfect ecosystem for our little apex predators to go hunt to their hearts' content and get babied by the neighbors. 

Now, our next door neighbors have chickens. There are hawks and foxes in the hills. Our yard is overrun with chipmunks and squirrels. I haven't seen another cat outside in the past two months. It's a different world here. They may have loved it. They may have already been killed by now. 

I remember the first week of senior year of college driving back from Lowell, MA with three little flea-covered kittens in a Coors Light box that I got for $20. I remember moving out of Hoboken and not being able to find Dagny and losing my mind thinking my little girl had just ran out into the big scary world, and the relief I felt finding her hiding in the kitchen cabinet. I still have a couple scars from holding Socrates when I was making popcorn on the stove. I remember the cat tower at Calumet and the cat shelves on Bloomfield and the ever-present hair and the litter and Apollo peeing outside the litter box so frequently and when he got a UTI and Sockies tightrope-walking the railing on the Upper West Side and breaking up their scuffles and scratching posts and the cat shelves in Brooklyn and driving the boys down to Nashville and more cat shelves there and the time they got under the floorboards and their silly water fountain and the hair ties and Poos making muffins and how you could wander around the house holding Sockies in one arm forever while he purred and slept without a care in the world. 

There are echoes now. A fluff of hair at the bottom of a tub. The smell of litter dust on old wood boards. Is that cat pee still on the side of that toolbox? Water fountain filters. Pill pockets. A rogue catnip toy among some old papers. Sweet reminders, except for the cat piss, I'm pretty sure I got it all. 

I remember parting ways with Dagny before moving to Nashville so she could live out the rest of her happy little kitty life in New York City with her mommy. I knew she had the best home and all the love she could ever ask for. But I remember distinctly the pain of saying goodbye, blubbering as I closed my apartment door, sending her off with her favorite little things. I remember the call two years later when she had to get put down. I remember the sad sad pain of goodbye.

There were no tears saying goodbye to Sockies and Poos. They are happy. I know they're happy. I've watched them slowly find and love the silly little cat life they've got going on in a quiet Nashville neighborhood. I stopped by their new house shortly before our move-out. Sockies was sleeping in the garden. Apollo was sleeping inside. They are loved and will live the rest of their days loved. I doubt they've even noticed we're gone. 

Goodbye my sweet boys. Be good.